In the previous video, we already learn about
web server.
Next in this video, we are going to learn
about extended access list.
The case is, we want to block all http access,
so we can not access the server with http,
but we still able to access server with https.
And then, all vlan is allowed to access server 1,
only vlan 20 is allowed to access server 2,
and last, only vlan 30 is allowed to access server 3.
So this is the case that we are going to use
to learn about extended access list.
Now let’s learn about the differences between
standard and extended access list.
In standard access list, the rule is only
based on source address.
Here we can see that the rule is deny and
then the source address.
Extended access list is more powerful than
standard access list.
In the extended access list, the rule will
based on source address, destination address,
and also protocol.
So with extended access list, we can block
specific packet.
Here in the rule 1, we only block http, so
https will still allowed.
This case only possible if we use extended
access list, we can not use standard access
list for this case, because in standard access
list, the rule is only based on source address.
Okay I think enough for this video, I hope
you understand the differences between standard
and extended access list.
In the next video, we are going to learn how
to configure extended access list.
Thank you for watching and see you on the
next video.